Merope Gaunt – Daughter of Marvolo Gaunt, sister of Morfin Gaunt, wife of Tom Riddle Sr, mother of Tom Marvolo Riddle/Lord Voldemort, died after childbirth, named for Merope, one of the Pleiades, who married a mortal[1]

Alice Longbottom – Wife of Frank Longbottom, mother of Neville Longbottom, member of the original Order of the Phoenix, Auror, tortured into insanity by Bellatrix Lestrange along with her husband

Augusta Longbottom – Mother of Frank Longbottom and grandmother of Neville Longbottom

Narcissa Malfoy (née Black) – Lucius Malfoy's wife and Draco Malfoy's mother, sister of Bellatrix Lestrange.

Lily Potter – Harry Potter's mother, a member of the Order of the Phoenix, murdered by Lord Voldemort before the series begins.

Nymphadora Tonks – Daughter of Ted and Andromeda Tonks, Auror and member of the Order of the Phoenix. She marries Remus Lupin, and become the mother of Teddy Lupin.

Molly Weasley (née Prewett) – Wife of Arthur Weasley, mother of Bill, Charlie, Percy, Fred, George, Ron and Ginny Weasley, a member of the Order of the Phoenix.

Vincent Crabbe, Sr. – Death Eater, father of Vincent Crabbe

Amos Diggory – Works for the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures, father of Cedric Diggory

Vernon Dursley – Harry Potter's muggle uncle, married to his aunt Petunia and father of Dudley Dursley.

Goyle Sr – Death Eater, father of Gregory Goyle

Frank Longbottom – Father of Neville Longbottom, a member of the original Order of the Phoenix, Auror, tortured into insanity by Bellatrix Lestrange along with his wife.

Xenophilius Lovegood – Father of Luna Lovegood, and editor of The Quibbler.

Lucius Malfoy – Draco Malfoy's father, an influential Death-Eater, and, early in the series, governor of Hogwarts

James Potter – Harry Potter's father, a member of the Order of the Phoenix, murdered by Lord Voldemort before the series begins.

Thomas Riddle – Muggle husband of Mary Riddle, father of Tom Riddle Sr, grandfather of Tom Marvolo Riddle/Lord Voldemort, killed by his grandson.

Tom Riddle Sr – Muggle husband of Merope Gaunt, father of Tom Marvolo Riddle/Lord Voldemort, son of Thomas and Mary Riddle, killed by his son

Ted Tonks – Muggle-born husband of Andromeda and father of Nymphadora Tonks.

Arthur Weasley – Muggle-obsessed Ministry of Magic employee. Husband of Molly Weasley, father of Bill, Charlie, Percy, Fred, George, Ron, and Ginny Weasley, member of the Order of the Phoenix
