Hannah Abbott – Hufflepuff student in Harry's year and member of Dumbledore's Army.

Katie Bell – Gryffindor student one year above Harry Potter; Chaser on the Gryffindor Quidditch team.

Susan Bones – Hufflepuff student in Harry's year, a member of Dumbledore's Army.

Terry Boot - Ravenclaw student in Harry's year, a member of Dumbledore's Army.

Lavender Brown – Gryffindor student in Harry's year, a member of Dumbledore's Army, briefly Ron Weasley's girlfriend.

Millicent Bulstrode – Slytherin student in Harry's year, a member of Umbridge's Inquisitorial Squad.

Cho Chang – Ravenclaw student one year above Harry, Quidditch Seeker, member of Dumbledore's Army and Harry's first Love interest

Michael Corner – Ravenclaw student in Harry's year, member of Dumbledore's Army

Vincent Crabbe – Slytherin student in Harry's year, son of Death Eater, Slytherin Quidditch team Beater, a member of the Inquisitorial Squad, a friend of Draco Malfoy.

Colin Creevey – Muggle-born Gryffindor student one year below Harry, brother of Dennis Creevey, member of Dumbledore's Army, killed during the Battle of Hogwarts, after sneaking away from the younger evacuated students in the seventh book

Dennis Creevey – Muggle-born Gryffindor student three years below Harry, brother of Colin Creevey, member of Dumbledore's Army

Fleur Delacour – French student who participated in the Triwizard Tournament representing Beauxbatons, later wed Bill Weasley.

Cedric Diggory – Hufflepuff student two years above Harry, school prefect, Quidditch Seeker and captain, co-winner of the Triwizard Tournament

Marietta Edgecombe – Ravenclaw student one year above Harry, member of Dumbledore's Army

Justin Finch-Fletchley – Muggle-born Hufflepuff student in Harry's year, a member of Dumbledore's Army.

Seamus Finnigan – Irish Gryffindor student in Harry's year, a member of Dumbledore's Army best friend of Dean Thomas.

Anthony Goldstein - Ravenclaw student in Harry's year, member of Dumbledore's Army

Gregory Goyle – Slytherin student in Harry's year, Slytherin Quidditch Beater, a member of the Inquisitorial Squad.

Hermione Granger – Muggle-born Gryffindor student in Harry's year, one of Harry's best friends, founder of Dumbledore's Army, Gryffindor Prefect

Rubeus Hagrid – Half-giant keeper of Keys and Grounds at Hogwarts, Care of Magical Creatures professor starting from Harry's third year, a member of the Order of the Phoenix. Once a Hogwarts student, Hagrid was expelled in his third year.

Angelina Johnson – Gryffindor student two years above Harry, Quidditch Chaser and later captain

Lee Jordan – Gryffindor student two years above Harry, Hogwarts Quidditch commentator, good friend of Fred and George Weasley at Hogwarts

Viktor Krum – Durmstrang student, Bulgarian Quidditch Seeker, participated in the Triwizard Tournament.

Neville Longbottom – Gryffindor student in Harry's year, a member of Dumbledore's Army.

Luna Lovegood – Ravenclaw student one year below Harry, a member of Dumbledore's Army.

Remus Lupin – Gryffindor student before Harry's time, Marauder, a friend of James Potter, werewolf, Professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts in Harry's third year, a member of the Order of the Phoenix.

Draco Malfoy – Slytherin student in Harry's year, Slytherin Quidditch Seeker, school prefect, member of the Inquisitorial Squad, Death Eater

Ernie Macmillan – Hufflepuff student in Harry's year, school prefect, member of Dumbledore's Army

Theodore Nott - Slytherin student in the same year as Harry Potter. Nott is one of the few students who can see Thestrals, suggesting that he has witnessed a death at some point. His father is a Death Eater and described as an elderly widower.

Pansy Parkinson – Slytherin student in Harry's year, school prefect, a member of the Inquisitorial Squad, Draco Malfoy's girlfriend for some time.

Padma Patil – Ravenclaw student in Harry's year, identical twin sister of Gryffindor Parvati Patil, a member of Dumbledore's Army.

Parvati Patil – Gryffindor student in Harry's year, identical twin sister of Ravenclaw Padma Patil, a member of Dumbledore's Army.

Harry Potter – Main character of the series, son of James Potter and Lily Evans, Gryffindor student, Gryffindor Quidditch Seeker and captain, leader of Dumbledore's Army.

Demelza Robins — a student at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, sorted into Gryffindor House. She was a Chaser for the Gryffindor Quidditch team, and was noted to be particularly skilled at dodging Bludgers.

Newt Scamander – Author of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them, among other books. Headmaster and, Hufflepuff student at Hogwarts.

Zacharias Smith – Hufflepuff student, a member of Dumbledore's Army.

Dean Thomas – Gryffindor student in Harry's year, a member of Dumbledore's Army, briefly Ginny Weasley's boyfriend, Gryffindor Quidditch Chaser.

Romilda Vane – Hogwarts student who tried to romance Harry with Chocolate Cauldrons containing a love potion from Weasley's Wizard Wheezes

Ginny Weasley – Only daughter and youngest child of Arthur and Molly Weasley, Gryffindor student one year under Harry, Gryffindor Quidditch Seeker and Chaser, a member of Dumbledore's Army.

Oliver Wood – Hogwarts student, Gryffindor Quidditch Keeper and captain.
