Hannah Abbott – Hufflepuff student in Harry's year and member of Dumbledore's Army.
Bathsheda Babbling – Ancient Runes teacher at Hogwarts
Ludo Bagman – Quidditch Beater for the Wimbourne Wasps and Head of the Department of Magical Games and Sports within the Ministry of Magic
Bathilda Bagshot – Author of A History of Magic, great aunt of Gellert Grindelwald.
Katie Bell – Gryffindor student one year above Harry Potter; Chaser on the Gryffindor Quidditch team.
Cuthbert Binns – Ghost, History of Magic professor.
Phineas Nigellus Black - deceased great-great-grandfather of Sirius Black and former headmaster of Hogwarts, whose painting still hangs in the office and helps out the current headmaster.
Regulus Arcturus Black – Late brother of Sirius Black, a Death Eater who had turned against Lord Voldemort.
Sirius Black – Harry Potter's godfather, a member of the Order of the Phoenix and prisoner on the run.
Amelia Bones – Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, aunt of Susan Bones.
Susan Bones – Hufflepuff student in Harry's year, a member of Dumbledore's Army.
Terry Boot - Ravenclaw student in Harry's year, a member of Dumbledore's Army.
Lavender Brown – Gryffindor student in Harry's year, a member of Dumbledore's Army, briefly Ron Weasley's girlfriend.
Millicent Bulstrode – Slytherin student in Harry's year, a member of Umbridge's Inquisitorial Squad.
Charity Burbage – Professor of Muggle Studies at Hogwarts during Harry's time at school.
Frank Bryce – Muggle gardener for the Riddle family.
Alecto Carrow – Sister of Amycus Carrow, Death Eater and professor of Muggle Studies for one year, Deputy Headmistress of Hogwarts under Severus Snape
Amycus Carrow – Brother of Alecto Carrow, Death Eater and professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts for one year, even though he changed it to just "Dark Arts", Deputy Headmaster of Hogwarts under Severus Snape
Reginald Cattermole – Employee of the Magical Maintenance Department for the Ministry of Magic, impersonated by Ron Weasley
Mary Cattermole – Muggle-born wife of Reginald Cattermole, saved by Harry Potter from the Muggle-born Registration Commission.
Cho Chang – Ravenclaw student one year above Harry, Quidditch Seeker, member of Dumbledore's Army and Harry's first Love interest
Penelope Clearwater – Ravenclaw prefect and girlfriend of Percy Weasley
Michael Corner – Ravenclaw student in Harry's year, member of Dumbledore's Army
Vincent Crabbe, Sr. – Death Eater, father of Vincent Crabbe
Vincent Crabbe – Slytherin student in Harry's year, son of Death Eater, Slytherin Quidditch team Beater, a member of the Inquisitorial Squad, a friend of Draco Malfoy.
Colin Creevey – Muggle-born Gryffindor student one year below Harry, brother of Dennis Creevey, member of Dumbledore's Army, killed during the Battle of Hogwarts, after sneaking away from the younger evacuated students in the seventh book
Dennis Creevey – Muggle-born Gryffindor student three years below Harry, brother of Colin Creevey, member of Dumbledore's Army
Dirk Cresswell – Muggle-born Head of the Goblin Liaison Office, went on the run in Deathly Hallows with fellow muggle-born Ted Tonks, Dean Thomas and goblins Gornuk and Griphook.
Bartemius "Barty" Crouch, Sr. – Head of the Department of International Magical Cooperation, killed by his son Barty Crouch Jr, Transfigurated into a bone before being buried
Bartemius "Barty" Crouch, Jr. – Death Eater, credited with facilitating the return of Lord Voldemort, received a Dementor's Kiss, used Polyjuice Potion to impersonate Alastor Moody
Fleur Delacour – French student who participated in the Triwizard Tournament representing Beauxbatons, later wed Bill Weasley.
Gabrielle Delacour – Younger sister of Fleur Delacour, saved by Harry in the Triwizard Tournament
Dedalus Diggle – Member of the Order of the Phoenix who took the Dursleys into hiding
Amos Diggory – Works for the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures, father of Cedric Diggory
Cedric Diggory – Hufflepuff student two years above Harry, school prefect, Quidditch Seeker and captain, co-winner of the Triwizard Tournament
Elphias Doge - School friend of Albus Dumbledore
Antonin Dolohov – Death Eater who killed Fabian Prewett, Gideon Prewett, and Remus Lupin.
Aberforth Dumbledore – Brother of Albus and Ariana Dumbledore, owner of the Hog's Head
Albus Dumbledore – Hogwarts Headmaster in Harry Potter's time, Transfiguration professor in Tom Riddle's time, founder of the Order of the Phoenix.
Ariana Dumbledore — Late sister of Albus and Aberforth Dumbledore.
Dudley Dursley – Muggle son of Vernon Dursley and Petunia Evans, first cousin of Harry Potter
Marjorie "Marge" Dursley – Muggle sister of Vernon Dursley, breeds bulldogs, her favourite one named Ripper.
Petunia Dursley (née Evans) – Harry's aunt, the sister of his mother Lily. Married to Vernon Dursley and mother of Dudley Dursley
Vernon Dursley – Harry Potter's muggle uncle, married to his aunt Petunia and father of Dudley Dursley.
Marietta Edgecombe – Ravenclaw student one year above Harry, member of Dumbledore's Army
Everard – Former Headmaster of Hogwarts, a particularly famous wizard, whose portrait hangs in many institutions, including the Ministry of Magic
Arabella Figg – Squib neighbour of the Dursleys', member of the Order of the Phoenix.
Argus Filch – Squib caretaker of Hogwarts
Justin Finch-Fletchley – Muggle-born Hufflepuff student in Harry's year, a member of Dumbledore's Army.
Seamus Finnigan – Irish Gryffindor student in Harry's year, a member of Dumbledore's Army best friend of Dean Thomas.
Marcus Flint - Slytherin sixth year Quidditch captain
Nicolas Flamel – alchemist, the only known creator of the Philosopher's Stone.
Mundungus Fletcher – Common thief and shifty member of the Order of the Phoenix
Filius Flitwick – Charms professor at Hogwarts and Head of Ravenclaw
Cornelius Fudge – Minister for Magic in the first five books, sacked when he denied Lord Voldemort's return for a year.
Marvolo Gaunt – Pure-blood father of Merope and Morfin Gaunt, grandfather of Tom Marvolo Riddle.
Merope Gaunt – Daughter of Marvolo Gaunt, sister of Morfin Gaunt, wife of Tom Riddle Sr, mother of Tom Marvolo Riddle/Lord Voldemort, died after childbirth, named for Merope, one of the Pleiades, who married a mortal[1]
Morfin Gaunt – Son of Marvolo Gaunt, brother of Merope Gaunt, uncle of Tom Marvolo Riddle, framed by his nephew for Muggle killings.
Anthony Goldstein - Ravenclaw student in Harry's year, member of Dumbledore's Army
Goyle Sr – Death Eater, father of Gregory Goyle
Gregory Goyle – Slytherin student in Harry's year, Slytherin Quidditch Beater, a member of the Inquisitorial Squad.
Hermione Granger – Muggle-born Gryffindor student in Harry's year, one of Harry's best friends, founder of Dumbledore's Army, Gryffindor Prefect
Gregorovitch – highly regarded East European wand-maker.
Fenrir Greyback – Werewolf, infected Remus Lupin, maimed Bill Weasley and wounded Lavender Brown.
Gellert Grindelwald – Dark Wizard, friend, and later rival, of Albus Dumbledore who defeated him in the 1940s.
Wilhelmina Grubbly-Plank – Substitute Care of Magical Creatures professor during Harry's fourth year
Godric Gryffindor – One of the four founders of Hogwarts
Rubeus Hagrid – Half-giant keeper of Keys and Grounds at Hogwarts, Care of Magical Creatures professor starting from Harry's third year, a member of the Order of the Phoenix. Once a Hogwarts student, Hagrid was expelled in his third year.
Rolanda Hooch – Hogwarts flying instructor, Quidditch referee
Mafalda Hopkirk - Witch who works in the Ministry of Magic, impersonated by Hermione Granger in Deathly Hallows.
Helga Hufflepuff – One of the four founders of Hogwarts, ancestor of Hepzibah Smith
Angelina Johnson – Gryffindor student two years above Harry, Quidditch Chaser and later captain
Lee Jordan – Gryffindor student two years above Harry, Hogwarts Quidditch commentator, good friend of Fred and George Weasley at Hogwarts
Bertha Jorkins witch from the Ministry of Magic who was murdered by Voldemort.
Igor Karkaroff – Reformed Death Eater, Headmaster of Durmstrang.
Viktor Krum – Durmstrang student, Bulgarian Quidditch Seeker, participated in the Triwizard Tournament.
Bellatrix Lestrange (née Black) – Death Eater, sister of Narcissa Malfoy and Andromeda Tonks, cousin of Sirius and Regulus Black, she tortured Frank and Alice Longbottom into insanity.
Rabastan Lestrange – Death Eater, brother of Rodolphus Lestrange
Rodolphus Lestrange – Death Eater, brother of Rabastan Lestrange, husband of Bellatrix Lestrange
Gilderoy Lockhart – Fraudulent celebrity author, Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher.
Alice Longbottom – Wife of Frank Longbottom, mother of Neville Longbottom, member of the original Order of the Phoenix, Auror, tortured into insanity by Bellatrix Lestrange along with her husband
Augusta Longbottom – Mother of Frank Longbottom and grandmother of Neville Longbottom
Frank Longbottom – Father of Neville Longbottom, a member of the original Order of the Phoenix, Auror, tortured into insanity by Bellatrix Lestrange along with his wife.
Neville Longbottom – Gryffindor student in Harry's year, a member of Dumbledore's Army.
Luna Lovegood – Ravenclaw student one year below Harry, a member of Dumbledore's Army.
Xenophilius Lovegood – Father of Luna Lovegood, and editor of The Quibbler.
Remus Lupin – Gryffindor student before Harry's time, Marauder, a friend of James Potter, werewolf, Professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts in Harry's third year, a member of the Order of the Phoenix.
Walden Macnair - The Committee of Disposal of Dangerous Creatures's executioner, also a Death-Eater
Draco Malfoy – Slytherin student in Harry's year, Slytherin Quidditch Seeker, school prefect, member of the Inquisitorial Squad, Death Eater
Lucius Malfoy – Draco Malfoy's father, an influential Death-Eater, and, early in the series, governor of Hogwarts
Narcissa Malfoy (née Black) – Lucius Malfoy's wife and Draco Malfoy's mother, sister of Bellatrix Lestrange.
Madam Malkin – Clothes shop owner at Diagon Alley
Olympe Maxime – Half-giantess, Headmistress of Beauxbatons
Ernie Macmillan – Hufflepuff student in Harry's year, school prefect, member of Dumbledore's Army
Minerva McGonagall – Hogwarts Transfiguration professor, Head of Gryffindor House, Deputy Headmistress of Hogwarts, a member of the Order of the Phoenix.
Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody – Retired Auror, member of the Order of the Phoenix, impersonated by Barty Crouch Jr. in 'The Goblet of Fire'
Theodore Nott - Slytherin student in the same year as Harry Potter. Nott is one of the few students who can see Thestrals, suggesting that he has witnessed a death at some point. His father is a Death Eater and described as an elderly widower.
Garrick Ollivander – Wandmaker, owner of Ollivanders shop.
Pansy Parkinson – Slytherin student in Harry's year, school prefect, a member of the Inquisitorial Squad, Draco Malfoy's girlfriend for some time.
Padma Patil – Ravenclaw student in Harry's year, identical twin sister of Gryffindor Parvati Patil, a member of Dumbledore's Army.
Parvati Patil – Gryffindor student in Harry's year, identical twin sister of Ravenclaw Padma Patil, a member of Dumbledore's Army.
Peter Pettigrew – Former school friend of James Potter, Sirius Black and Remus Lupin. Betrays James and Lily Potter. Death Eater, an unregistered animagus, Pettigrew is first introduced as a rat known as Scabbers.
Antioch Peverell – Original owner of The Elder Wand in The Tale of the Three Brothers.
Cadmus Peverell – Original owner of The Resurrection Stone in The Tale of the Three Brothers
Ignotus Peverell – Original owner of The Invisibility Cloak in The Tale of the Three Brothers.
Irma Pince – Hogwarts librarian
Sturgis Podmore – Member of the Order of the Phoenix, imprisoned in Azkaban
Poppy Pomfrey – Hogwarts school nurse
Harry Potter – Main character of the series, son of James Potter and Lily Evans, Gryffindor student, Gryffindor Quidditch Seeker and captain, leader of Dumbledore's Army.
James Potter – Harry Potter's father, a member of the Order of the Phoenix, murdered by Lord Voldemort before the series begins.
Lily Potter – Harry Potter's mother, a member of the Order of the Phoenix, murdered by Lord Voldemort before the series begins.
Ernest "Ernie" Prang, (fl. 1993-1997), also called Ern by Stanley Shunpike, was the driver of the Knight Bus.
Quirinus Quirrell – Defence Against the Dark Arts professor in Harry's first year, possessed by Lord Voldemort in Philosopher's Stone.
Helena Ravenclaw/The Grey Lady – Daughter of Rowena Ravenclaw, stole her mother's diadem and hid it, killed by the Bloody Baron and became Ravenclaw's house ghost.
Rowena Ravenclaw – Co-founder of Hogwarts, mother of Helena Ravenclaw
Mary Riddle – Muggle wife of Thomas Riddle, mother of Tom Riddle Sr, mother-in-law of Merope Gaunt, grandmother of Tom Marvolo Riddle/Lord Voldemort, killed by her grandson
Thomas Riddle – Muggle husband of Mary Riddle, father of Tom Riddle Sr, grandfather of Tom Marvolo Riddle/Lord Voldemort, killed by his grandson.
Tom Riddle Sr – Muggle husband of Merope Gaunt, father of Tom Marvolo Riddle/Lord Voldemort, son of Thomas and Mary Riddle, killed by his son
Tom Marvolo Riddle – see Lord Voldemort
Demelza Robins — a student at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, sorted into Gryffindor House. She was a Chaser for the Gryffindor Quidditch team, and was noted to be particularly skilled at dodging Bludgers.
Augustus Rookwood – Death Eater, spy working in the Department of Mysteries
Albert Runcorn — was a Ministry of Magic employee of high rank during the administration under Pius Thicknesse. His chief function was an investigator of alleged Muggle-borns.
Scabior – Snatcher who captures Harry Potter, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger in Deathly Hallows.
Newt Scamander – Author of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them, among other books. Headmaster and, Hufflepuff student at Hogwarts.
Rufus Scrimgeour – Head of the Auror Office, replaces Cornelius Fudge as Minister for Magic.
Kingsley Shacklebolt – Auror, replaces Pius Thicknesse as Minister for Magic, member of the Order of the Phoenix
Stan Shunpike – Conductor of the Knight Bus, later jailed in Azkaban on suspicions of being a death-eater.
Aurora Sinistra - Professor and member of the Astronomy Department at Hogwarts, a witch with dark skin, hair, and eyes.
Rita Skeeter – Reporter for the Daily Prophet, author of The Life and Lies of Albus Dumbledore, unregistered animagus.
Horace Slughorn – Former Potions professor at Hogwarts and Head of Slytherin House who taught Tom Marvolo Riddle and returns to Hogwarts in Harry's sixth year.
Salazar Slytherin – Co-founder of Hogwarts, Parseltongue, ancestor of the Gaunt family and Lord Voldemort.
Hepzibah Smith – Elderly, wealthy antique collector, descendant of Helga Hufflepuff, murdered and robbed by Tom Marvolo Riddle
Zacharias Smith – Hufflepuff student, a member of Dumbledore's Army.
Severus Snape – Hogwarts, Potions and later Defence Against the Dark Arts professor, Head of Slytherin House, a member of both the Death Eaters and the Order of the Phoenix.
Alicia Spinnet – Chaser on the Gryffindor Quidditch team, two years above Harry Potter at Hogwarts. Member of Dumbledore's Army.
Pomona Sprout – Hogwarts Herbology professor, Head of Hufflepuff House.
Pius Thicknesse – Minister for Magic while under the Imperius Curse, later replaced by Kingsley Shacklebolt.
Dean Thomas – Gryffindor student in Harry's year, a member of Dumbledore's Army, briefly Ginny Weasley's boyfriend, Gryffindor Quidditch Chaser.
Andromeda Tonks – Sister of Bellatrix Lestrange and Narcissa Malfoy, disowned by her family for marrying Muggle-born Ted Tonks, mother of Nymphadora Tonks.
Nymphadora Tonks – Daughter of Ted and Andromeda Tonks, Auror and member of the Order of the Phoenix. She marries Remus Lupin, and become the mother of Teddy Lupin.
Ted Tonks – Muggle-born husband of Andromeda and father of Nymphadora Tonks.
Travers — was a wizard and a Death Eater. Escaped from Azkaban after Lord Voldemort's return.
Sybill Patricia Trelawney – Hogwarts Divination professor, predicted the prophecy that prompted Lord Voldemort to go after the Potters
Dolores Jane Umbridge – Senior Undersecretary to the Minister for Magic, Defence Against the Dark Arts professor, Hogwarts High Inquisitor, Headmistress of Hogwarts, who enthusiastically joins in the persecution of half-bloods under Voldermort.
Emmeline Vance - a member of the party that brings Harry to Grimmauld Place, a member of the Order of the Phoenix. Described as "A stately looking witch in an emerald green shawl".
Romilda Vane – Hogwarts student who tried to romance Harry with Chocolate Cauldrons containing a love potion from Weasley's Wizard Wheezes
Septima Vector – Arithmancy professor at Hogwarts.
Lord Voldemort – The villain of the series, the murderer of Harry Potter's parents and many others in his quest for immortality and absolute power.
Arthur Weasley – Muggle-obsessed Ministry of Magic employee. Husband of Molly Weasley, father of Bill, Charlie, Percy, Fred, George, Ron, and Ginny Weasley, member of the Order of the Phoenix
Bill Weasley – Oldest son of Arthur and Molly Weasley, Gringotts employee.
Charlie Weasley – Second son of Arthur and Molly Weasley, and a member of the Order of the Phoenix, works with dragons in Romania.
Fred Weasley – Son of Arthur and Molly Weasley and identical twin brother of George Weasley, a member of Dumbledore's Army, Gryffindor Quidditch Beater, co-owner of Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes, killed in an explosion caused by Augustus Rookwood in the Battle of Hogwarts.
George Weasley – Son of Arthur and Molly Weasley and identical twin brother of Fred Weasley, member of Dumbledore's Army, Gryffindor Quidditch Beater, co-owner of Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes, marries Angelina Johnson
Ginny Weasley – Only daughter and youngest child of Arthur and Molly Weasley, Gryffindor student one year under Harry, Gryffindor Quidditch Seeker and Chaser, a member of Dumbledore's Army.
Molly Weasley (née Prewett) – Wife of Arthur Weasley, mother of Bill, Charlie, Percy, Fred, George, Ron and Ginny Weasley, a member of the Order of the Phoenix.
Percy Weasley – Third son of Arthur and Molly Weasley, Gryffindor prefect and Head Boy then Ministry of Magic employee, long estranged from his family before joining them against the Death Eaters in Deathly Hallows,
Ron Weasley – Harry's close friend, youngest Son of Arthur and Molly Weasley, Gryffindor Quidditch Keeper, school prefect, a member of Dumbledore's Army.
Oliver Wood – Hogwarts student, Gryffindor Quidditch Keeper and captain.
Kennilworthy Whisp - author of "Quidditch Through the Ages"