Bathsheda Babbling – Ancient Runes teacher at Hogwarts

Gilderoy Lockhart – Fraudulent celebrity author, Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher.

Cuthbert Binns – Ghost, History of Magic professor.

Charity Burbage – Professor of Muggle Studies at Hogwarts during Harry's time at school.

Alecto Carrow – Sister of Amycus Carrow, Death Eater and professor of Muggle Studies for one year, Deputy Headmistress of Hogwarts under Severus Snape

Amycus Carrow – Brother of Alecto Carrow, Death Eater and professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts for one year, even though he changed it to just "Dark Arts", Deputy Headmaster of Hogwarts under Severus Snape

Albus Dumbledore – Hogwarts Headmaster in Harry Potter's time, Transfiguration professor in Tom Riddle's time, founder of the Order of the Phoenix.

Filius Flitwick – Charms professor at Hogwarts and Head of Ravenclaw

Wilhelmina Grubbly-Plank – Substitute Care of Magical Creatures professor during Harry's fourth year

Rubeus Hagrid – Half-giant keeper of Keys and Grounds at Hogwarts, Care of Magical Creatures professor starting from Harry's third year, a member of the Order of the Phoenix. Once a Hogwarts student, Hagrid was expelled in his third year.

Remus Lupin – Gryffindor student before Harry's time, Marauder, a friend of James Potter, werewolf, Professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts in Harry's third year, a member of the Order of the Phoenix.

Minerva McGonagall – Hogwarts Transfiguration professor, Head of Gryffindor House, Deputy Headmistress of Hogwarts, a member of the Order of the Phoenix.

Quirinus Quirrell – Defence Against the Dark Arts professor in Harry's first year, possessed by Lord Voldemort in Philosopher's Stone.

Aurora Sinistra - Professor and member of the Astronomy Department at Hogwarts, a witch with dark skin, hair, and eyes.

Horace Slughorn – Former Potions professor at Hogwarts and Head of Slytherin House who taught Tom Marvolo Riddle and returns to Hogwarts in Harry's sixth year.

Severus Snape – Hogwarts, Potions and later Defence Against the Dark Arts professor, Head of Slytherin House, a member of both the Death Eaters and the Order of the Phoenix.

Pomona Sprout – Hogwarts Herbology professor, Head of Hufflepuff House.

Sybill Patricia Trelawney – Hogwarts Divination professor, predicted the prophecy that prompted Lord Voldemort to go after the Potters

Dolores Jane Umbridge – Senior Undersecretary to the Minister for Magic, Defence Against the Dark Arts professor, Hogwarts High Inquisitor, Headmistress of Hogwarts, who enthusiastically joins in the persecution of half-bloods under Voldermort.

Septima Vector – Arithmancy professor at Hogwarts.
